From Hanselman it's dot com
it's Hansel minutes or weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lauren's Ryan
announcer, Sean number 58, accorded
Wednesday, April 4th, 2007. Support from Hanselman
is provided by Telerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottlerik.com.
Support is also provided by
slash and software red carpet
subscription. The most comprehensive solution
for adding connectivity to your.net
and asp.net applications with components
for every major internet protocol
online@wwwdotandsoftwaredotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, it's gotten
crawled discussed calendar synchronization. Hi,
this is Carl Franklin and you're
listening to Hansel minutes. I'm
here with Scott Hanselman. Of
course. Hi Scott. How's it
going? It's good to be
back in the old chair
again. Yeah, it's fits good
at, we have a number
of interview shows there for
awhile and I suffice to
say, I thought they were
great. Well, let's get right
back into what we do
the best, which is complaining
about Microsoft office. Absolutely. So
I've had an immense amount
of pain recently about this
DST change. Have you missed
any appointments because of it?
Yes. As a matter of
fact, I had to have
my cell phone, which is
running windows pocket PC 2003.
I had to have that
in the Atlantic time zone.
So for the last month
I've been living off the
coast of Connecticut insane. We've
had a heck of a
time. One of the things
that really almost got me
in a lot of trouble
actually was we were supposed
to go and visit a
daycare. And my, my wife
uses Google calendar and I
sync my outlook with her
Google calendar. I use outlook
2007. And somehow during that
middle place, that, that kind
of dead man zone when
daylight savings times was supposed
to start. And the new
one started there was that
kind of two week period.
Her, her, her appointments were
an hour forward. So they
were showing up in my
outlook as being an hour
later than they really were.
You know, I also saw
a story on dig that
this whole thing has been
for. Not no, no electricity
was saved. It was just
a big waste of time.
Yeah, well it did get
me thinking about sinking calendars
and stuff. The wife really,
really likes Google calendar. A
lot uses it all the
time. And you know, recently
I had my dad's email
lost, so I've been, he
lost actually two years of
email. Well, he lost it.
I lost it. Outlook PST
file. No, it was actually
Thunderbird and I lost his
email. I copied something around
then somehow I got nailed.
I don't know what happened.
Well, my mother too, she
used Thunderbird and lost a
whole bunch of stuff. I
don't know what the story
was. Well, in this particular
instance, it was me being
stupid. I'm not really sure
how it happened, but the
point is, I'm trying to
think about synchronizing. These folks'
lives. He's got a really
old Palm pilot. He's got
calendar information in the Palm
application. He's got email and
Thunderbird. The wife's got stuff,
email on Gmail, email calendar
on calendar. Exactly. So I
wanted to make it so
I could see my wife's
Google calendar in my outlook.
And she could see my
outlook calendar in her Google
calendar. And Just real quick.
Did it work? Did you
actually find a solution? Yeah,
Exactly. And that's what this
podcast is all about. Kidding.
Cause this is no trivial
task, You know, and the
fact that it's no trivial
task and that I struggled
with, it kind of speaks
to the state of internet
calendars in general. Right? Cause
there's this ICL format. If
you've probably seen this before,
it's not a particularly amazing
format. It's actually kind of
difficult to read. It looks
like an old style, any
file it's, you know, it's
a very not, well, I
guess I'm saying, and I
mean a bigoted way that
if it's not angled brackets,
then I don't really think
it's pretty. Okay. So I
mean, it's certainly not an
XML based format, but this
I California is these standard
just like V cards are
the standards for passing people's
contact information around and Google
calendar is really good about
this. You can go into
Google calendar, click on, share
this calendar within one of
your calendars. And they'll give
you a, not a particularly
secure link, but a very
obfuscated link to that particular
calendar. So is it to
you? It's not a web
service. It's just a link
you can hit anytime. It's
just a link. They've got
basically three different kinds of
links that they'll give you.
They'll give you a, an
XML link, which is their
own kind of format. They'll
give you an I Cal
link and then they'll give
you an HTML link. And
these are all links that
you could give someone if,
if you wanted to show
them your, your calendar. So
the, the I Cal link
was the one that I
was most interested in. So
I have to go explicitly
into my sharing settings and
then share. I can either
share all my information or
just my free, busy information.
So I shared my free
busy information within my Google
calendar. Now this is getting
a little complicated here. I'm
lost already. Let's back up.
Okay. So here's the deal.
My wife has Google calendar,
right? I want, let's start
this way. I want to
see her calendar in my
outlook. So let's figure that
out. So we go into
her calendar and she clicks
on share my calendar. Okay.
It gives her a, a
link with a good in
the Earl, right? That is
for an I Cal file.
Got it. Then I go
into outlook 2007. I click
on tools, account settings and
tools, account settings. There's a
number of things now, including
RSS feeds, you know, you
can get RSS within Google
and a new tab called
internet calendars. So I say
new internet calendar, and I
give the link to her
ICS file, which is the
big, long Google good link.
Really sometimes you'll see these
on the net with web
Cal Colin, whack whack in
front of it, rather than
HDP colon whack. Hm. Which
is interestingly becoming very popular,
which I think is ironic
because I was all about
the whole feed colon quack.
Right. And everyone else thought
that was lame. But then
at the same people are
excited about ICS files. So
whatever. So then I go,
We can talk about that
on another show. Cause I
have some opinions about the
feedback rack thing. It's kind
of weak. It is. It's
not it's HTML. Yeah. PTA
rather it's HDDP yeah. So
then I can subscribe to
her calendar and then it'll
automatically show up in my
outlook 2007 as another calendar,
which I can then click
the little checkbox and I
can actually overlay a ghost
of her calendar over mine.
So this makes, you know,
deciding when we're going to
have dinner and have people
over for dinner or this,
you know, the Easter egg
hunt this year or whatever
it makes coordinating really easily
because I can see her
Google calendar. Okay. Okay. So
now on my other monitor
here, I've got her calendar
up in Google calendar. I
want it so she can
see my free busy information.
And this is where it
got really hairy. So first
I said, Oh, well maybe
I'll use some of the
new features of outlook 2007
and I'll publish my calendar.
So I go and I
click and outlook and I
click publish my calendar back
in the day. You know,
you could do all sorts
of things back in the
day in the betas, you
could do a number of
weird things with outlook 2007.
They made it a little
harder. Now, if you right
click on your calendar, you
can say publish to internet.
And you've got two choices.
You can either publish to
office online, which is like
a whole kind of universe.
I click on that basically
they'll ask me for my,
my passport, my live account,
and I can publish the
availability or the limited details
or whatever, and I can
make it available to the
community or just to invite
a users. Okay. So like
we're merging with another company
right now and they don't
use outlook. So, and, but
for security reasons, I don't
want to publish the full
details of my calendar, but
I do want those guys
to be able to schedule
meetings. So I publish my
calendar to office online and
I publish just my availability.
So it shows free, busy
out of office. And then
I get a private link
that I can email those
guys and they can see
an HTML representation of my
calendar, not the ideal thing.
Cause they're, I mean, they're
using notes or something. I
don't know. And, and again,
it's not, it's not the
details of where you are
and what you're doing. It's
just, just the general availability.
Yeah. Out of busy and
out of box actually that's
or I can right. Click
what's ideal because it's not
integrated. Right. I could go
and say publish to web
dev server and I could
put maybe Polish it to
hanselman.com if I wanted to
and have more kind of
more control as opposed to
having office do it. But
in this instance, I really
just want to get my
stuff into her Google. Yeah.
So I started looking around
for this and what I've
found is a number of
different tools. That'll do this
because they're basically using the
Google calendar API APIs. But
the one that just worked
was this sink, my Cal
sink, my cal.com or@ashrinkstir.com slash
and M Z. I think
the real Earl is easier
than the shrinks to Earl
in that instance. And this
is basically a outlook add
in that synchronizes automatically to
the, it puts a toolbar
in your, your outlook and
synchronizes to the Google calendar.
Nice. It can be upload,
download details, not details, et
cetera, and works with 2007
works fine. They say that
they're working on getting this
to work in the PDA,
but I'll talk about some
other tools that'll already do
that. So then basically I'm
synchronizing my information, the private
information up to me, the,
the, not the private information,
but just the details that,
about where I'm going to
be in stuff up to
my Google calendar. So I
made a Google calendar. Okay.
Okay. Yeah. Made it private,
invited just my wife to
it. So now she sees
in her Google calendars, a
Scott Hanselman calendar that she
can then click on it.
It'll overlay my information. It's
private to her. Doesn't include
proprietary information about work stuff,
but lets her know where
I'm going to be generally
during the, during the day
and lets her schedule stuff,
Schedule stuff. Okay. So she
can add something like, you
know, pick up milk at
the store on your way
home. Exactly. So this is
the part that's tricky. You
can either synchronize, which would
set it. So if she
added something like an invite
to my Google calendar, cause
she has that power, it
would show up automatically in
my outlook and invite to
like, like, like sending me
an ICS file, like an,
like a, like an outlook
meeting request. Okay. The notion
of a meeting request is
not a unique to outlook
thing. Right. But I like
to be able to decline
tentative accept. So I set
my sync, my Cal to
just upload. So basically my
Google calendar is a snapshot
and I do this with
all my synchronization type situations.
I don't ever want to
have multiple authoritative sources. Right.
So Google is a read
only calendar kind of thing.
Exactly, exactly. Right. So Google
is my read only calendar.
If she wants to add
something to my calendar, she
just goes into Google, adds
it to her calendar says
invite Scott. Then it shows
up in my outlook at
work as an invite I
add, I accepted it gets
added to my calendar, shows
up on Google. Everyone's happy.
Okay. And I know this
sounds a little more administrative
it's like Robin. Yeah, exactly,
exactly. Advantage. Kind of the
circle of calendar life. It
might sound a little, a
little bit. Ministrative like, wow,
you make your wife send
you invites. It's not that
bad. I mean, literally she
manages her life. I mean,
I'm looking at her calendar
right now. We've got Easter
egg, Hong Kong, Easter egg hunt
on Saturday. We've got a
play date on Monday, went
to the zoo and you
know, it's, it's, it's very
straightforward stuff. But if she
doesn't know if I'm going
to be, if I, you
know, she will, I tell
her everything, but I'm saying
that I'm like, here we
go. We've got a dinner
on Friday, but I've got
some people visiting from out
of town to visit Karelian
to visit our company. She
can see that those people
visiting might, but right up
against that particular dinner. And
she can see that without
having to, to do this
all sorts of coordination. Well,
what are you doing Friday?
Dah, dah, dah. It really
is very seamless. The point
is that I feel really
comfortable in outlook and she
feels really comfortable in Google.
And between the two, we
have the best of both
worlds. I see her calendar
and outlook. She sees mine
and Google. Then I have
a Blackberry right Before you
get into that. Sure. What,
what would this be all
easier if she used that
look like my wife uses
outlook and I use outlook.
So, but we haven't gotten
into the calendar synchronization stuff
that I know. Is there
would, would it be easier
for us just to publish
to office online and to
use that? Yeah. That's a
very good point. One of
the issues is that there's
still this split brain thing
with outlook. There's the people
on exchange and people not
on exchange and we are
not on exchange. Right. So
yeah, if you are not
on exchange, you're using pop
or I'm app and you're
using, and you're both using
outlook and you're cool with
that then. Yeah. You could
totally publish the calendar to
office online and then each
of you could subscribe to
the other and then It's
the way to do it.
I mean, there's your machine
running? No, if you're both
running outlook, that's the easiest
possible thing to do. Okay.
If you're both, both running
out, unless you want to
run a hosted exchange. No,
no, no. I get it.
Yeah, Exactly. It's it kind
of gets messy. Now there
are other ways for awhile.
I was using Plaxo, flax.com.
Keep your contacts in sync.
Sort of like a viral
marketing thing too. Isn't it?
I mean, well, I like
sort of like sign up
your buddies to put all
their contact information. What's weird
is that you see that
it's somebody's birthday and you
email them a thing that
says happy birthday and they
didn't even know they freak
out. They're like, how did
you know that? Well that's
because they weren't being thoughtful
about what they chose to
share on Plaxo. Glaxo has
a very good privacy policy.
They have a full time
individual. Who's their privacy officer.
I like plaques. So a
lot, you know, I use
it, but I'm very specific
about what people can see
and what they can't see.
Yeah. But I, but plaques
was a great way. If
you have outlook at work,
running exchange and outlook at
home, not running exchange and
you want to keep your
calendars in sync, but you
need to check with your
it department to make sure
that kind of stuff is
cool because of course Microsoft
has shut that down. They
don't like that idea, but
that's just one example of
how you can synchronize your
calendars. Okay. You were talking
about your Blackberry. Okay. So
my Blackberry uses the Blackberry
enterprise server or whatever. And
I don't know anything about
that, but I do know
that all I had to
do was tell the it
guys, make sure my calendar
is synchronized. So my Blackberry
calendar happens. The synchronization happens
automatically. So if my wife
sends me an invite, it
shows up my calendar and
it'll show up on my
Blackberry wirelessly just because blackberries
are magic. So what's nice
about this is that. Now
I have the one calendar,
my work outlook calendar on
exchange. I liked your explanation
of that. Blackberries are magic.
Blackberries are magic. I have
no idea how they work.
They're absolute voodoo. They just
work. It's like, it's an
appliance for me. It's like
my refrigerator. Okay. I would
freak out if it stopped
working. So I've got my,
my main calendar, my outlook
at work, we synchronize it
to Google calendar read only
partial details. If Google calendar
went away, my, I don't
have to worry about my
data because it's in exchange.
It also gets synchronized to
the Blackberry. So the idea
here is that you want
your, your, your calendar, your
life, your brain, your extra
brain here to be synchronized
in a way that is
seamless. If you have to
think about any of this
stuff, then you're, you're in
trouble. Right? What I'm just
sick about is that this
is, this is necessary at
all. There's a really great
blog post. This guy wrote
called the Holy grail of
calendar sync at a
dot com slash N and
six N as in Nancy
and, and six. And he's
got this amazing kind of
manifesto about the Holy grail
of synchronization. He's got outlook,
calendar, iPod, and a mobile
phone, all shrink and rising.
And it's absolutely insane. That
is insane. And he's got
this amazing diagram. He's actually
drawn it all up. I'm
looking at it and he's
look, he's got calendars contacts.
He's got outlook sinking to
his iPod outlook, sinking to
his mobile phone outlook, sinking
to something called schedule world.com,
which then sinks to Gmail
and Google calendar. And then
his work outlook goes into
schedule world. That seems so
fragile. Well, you know, it
seems kind of fragile, but
if you really think about
what I just described, I'm
kind of doing the same
thing, Michelle, right? I got
outlook and work and home
talking to via plaque. So
Google calendar and Gmail though,
are, are, are sinking via
these, these plugins. If you're
going to do something like
this, no matter how you
do it, whether you do
it this way or my
way or some way that
you came up with your
own, I would really encourage
people to be aware of
what's being sent around. I'm
all about privacy information. And
I don't want like my
account, my, my contacts. I
don't sync those with, with
my iPod. I don't want
to lose my iPod and
have someone, you know, like
Paris Hilton lost her phone
and suddenly Tom cruise gets
a call. Cause his number
was in her phone. I
don't want to be the
guy that, you know, when
Carl Franklin's phone phone number
gets out and people start
calling you Carl with not
much of a problem, but
you know what I'm saying?
But things like this, I,
each tool that I look
at, I want to make
sure I have the ability
to filter, to provide access.
I don't need to include
notes. I want to be
able to send just free
busy information in some places
know where your data is.
And especially at work. Now
that outlook 2007 includes a
lot of really nice share
my calendar type stuff. Be
sure to right click on
the, on the appointments that
you don't want to be
a public and click the
private check box. You know,
there's no reason for my
dentist appointment to be published
out to the universe as,
Hey, Scott's got a dentist
appointment and that's why he's
not coming to the code
review that day, right? If
private stuff should stay private
and it seems like such
a simple thing, but people
forget that, you know, and
then we've got a lot
of shared calendars. You click
on one, somebody's got a
massage and a Thursday morning
TMI, too much information, right?
Private, private appointment. I say,
there's also ways to sync
your pocket PC to your
Google calendar. Lots of people
have been trying to figure
this out. shrinker.com/n N four
is one. Well, Your links
to founders. If your Google
calendar is sync to outlook,
how it looks things to
your pocket PC, why don't
you pick those things up?
Sure. But there are people
who don't necessarily want to
use outlook to do that
kind of work. Also, there
might be people who are
using outlook 2003, and they
want to be able to
synchronize to outlook 2003 and
then synchronize to their pocket
pieces. Right? So you want
to just go Google right
to your pocket PC. You
never know. There's all sorts
of ways. People work their
stuff. There is a, an
open source project called remote
calendar. It's unsourced forge, it
shrinks your slash and N
five. And this is basically
a, an open source project
that lets you to plug
in into outlook 2003. That
lets you speak to anything
that talks by Cal. Okay.
Alright. So subscribe. There are
lots of I calendar things
out there. For example, there
was a website around here
in Portland. I think it
was called like kids in
Portland. And it was basically
a guy publishing an I
calendar feed basically. And I
calendar as a feed of
events going on around town.
You can find Al I
calendar feeds out there about
concerts or your favorite band.
I calendar used correctly can
actually be like RSS for
events. So it's a really
great way to find out
about information and subscribe in
your calendar. That Google's ad
that added that recently in
their Google calendar. If you
have a Google calendar account,
you can see that right
next to the search. My
calendars button is a search
public events. So people have
been using Google calendar and
making ones for their band
for, for their organization that
you could then subscribe to.
Cool. Very cool stuff. How
do you manage your calendar?
I I'm just straight Outlook
and a pocket PC. Yup.
And, and I rely on
my pocket PC for reminders
and things like that. If
you know, so that's basically
yeah. What it is in
your pocket. PC is a
phone also. Yeah. It's pocket
PC phone. So you got
the smart World phone, the
Samsung eight 30. Yeah. Yep.
I love it. Your wife
just uses outlook. Yeah. Is
outlook. And when you know,
there's things that she needs
to invite me to, she
just invites me. Yeah. So,
so what are the rest
of your family use? What's
your mom use for her?
For her calendar. All right.
Well, you know, my dad's
no longer with us. My
mom, she uses, she doesn't
use a calendar, a computer
calendar. She uses the computer
for surfing and something to
yell at because she doesn't
have my brother and I
around anymore. So Well, I've
been trying to turn on
some of the family members
onto, you know, open source
stuff. A lot of people
are using Firefox using a
Thunderbird, no reason to use
an outlook license for mom
and dad. I've been looking
at Mozilla Sunbird, you've seen
this. It's basically like it's
like Firebird Thunderbird. Sunbird, it's
a cross platform calendar application.
And what's great about it
is that it uses ICL,
right? So you could potentially
sync your Google calendar to
your Sunbird and vice versa.
This I Cal format it's
sloppy, but you know, when
it works, it pretty much
works. Of course, in the
example that I gave earlier
about Google calendar, they kind
of goofed up on the
daylight savings time stuff. And
I, I sniff the wire
and watch the, the ICS
file coming down and the
dates were just flat out
wrong. My wife's for my
wife's appointments that were showing
up an hour late. Bummer.
Yeah. It was a bummer.
It's amazing how these things
cause a lot of pain
and you don't even realize
it until, you know, your
calendar just works. And then
one day it stops on.
Last thing I wanted to
mention is that Microsoft is
really actually kind of getting
in onto this whole, this
whole thing. They respect that
people have Google calendars out
there and there's actually a,
what do you call it?
A knowledge base article on
how to sync Google calendar
with office with office 2007.
So this is at a
shrink stir slash a, I
think it's N N eight.
And this is up at
the office online. And it's
step by step on how
to synchronize your, your calendars.
I think the point is
is that if you have
been looking for a solution
for this kind of problem,
you maybe never got around
to it. I think this
is a pretty good time.
The I Cal format works
nicely. You've got tools like
Sunbird, you've got sink. My
Cal, if you are interested
in getting your calendar life
organized, you know, what better
time than now, you know?
So there's, there's a task
for the weekend for folks
to synchronize their calendars Stuff
is actually working. That's a
good sign. Yeah. This that
I got to go in.
I think I'm on a
trial of sync Michaela. It's
probably time for me to
pay for it. Okay. Well,
Scott, that's a great show.
I'm very timely because I
was interested in all this
stuff and thanks once again.
All right. Good deal. All
right. And we'll see you
next time. .